ENGINEERING DIARY
2023.dec13 wed 0751mf
This is where I pen down beautiful thoughts relating to my engineering passion. However, it could also include other area outside engineering.

2023.dec13 wed 0754mf
	I'm delighted to know that computers originated from mechanical systems, before evolving to electromechanical systems and then electronics systems. The significance of this is that the working principle of a computer can easily be embodied in a mechanical system. Furthermore, many mechanical systems can provide excellent analogy for electrical concepts. This is exciting for me! I have a mechanical background. I consider myself first and foremost a mechanical engineer (I've not yet arrived o!). But I also deeply interested in not only electronics engineering, but in virtually every aspect of Physics! I sought of use my little knowledge of mechanics to try to understand or create analogy when learning other concepts in Physics e.g. Electricity, Quantum mechanics, etc. For me it is exciting to be interested in Mechanics, Electricity, and other Physics concepts.
	I believe that there is difference between electromechanical systems and mechatronic systems.
 
0750mf fri 26apr2024
	In my eyes, Physics can be reduced/distilled to mechanics. In otherwords, every topic or area or concept in Physics is a subset or an extension or a form or an embodiment of mechanics. How do I accurately articulate myself? For me, all of Physics is essentially mechanics. For instance, electromagnetism is effectively subatomic-level mechanics caused by a fundamental property called electric charge. Recall that classical mechanics is mechanics caused by a fundamental property called mass. In the same way, optics, relativity, particle physics, quantum mechanics and such are all varying forms of the same thing, mechanics. Maybe I didn't articulate myself well. Nonetheless, there is a point I am trying to make here. This is how I see Physics and is my formula for understanding Physics concepts. I see every Physics or engineering concept as a mechanical concept.
	In addition, in my imagination, mechanical engineering is effectively the superset of every other engineering discipline because they all involve mechanics. For instance, electrical engineering involves the mechanics of electrons. Heck, even civil, the so-called "father of all engineering", involves static mechanics. In addition, the static structures in civil engineering consist of dynamic entities at a molecular or atomic level, which in determine the behaviour of such structures.
